in the five years since king stefan's
death n1 aurora has reigned as queen of
the moors
with maleficent as its guardian and
protector
despite her service the neighboring
kingdom of ulstead
home to prince philip deems maleficent a
villainous and while philip's father
king john wishes for peace
his mother queen ingrith has been
secretly preparing for war
in the hidden areas of the castle
workers make weapons and ammunition out
of iron
deadly to all fairies diaval
maleficent's raven and confidante
overhears philip proposing to aurora and
tells maleficent
while she advises against the union
aurora vows to prove her wrong
philips parents host an intimate dinner
having invited aurora
maleficent and diaval maleficent
maintains her composure as ingrath
taunts her throughout the evening by
repeating the inaccurate story that has
made the humans believe her to be evil
the story of maleficent's sleeping curse
on aurora is only half the truth
because no one has ever been told the
whole truth about her loving aurora and
sacrificing herself to lift the curse
ingrath alludes to stefan's death as
murder and openly claims maleficent
killed two human fairy poachers last
seen near the moors
maleficent responds with equal iciness
that humans have been kidnapping fairies
and hints that she believes the order to
do it comes from the king or queen
ingrath provokes maleficent by
dismissing her maternal bond with aurora
and claims that the marriage will make
ingrath her real mother
to which maleficent reacts by angrily
unleashing a burst of magical energy
john suddenly faints and ingrith accuses
maleficent of cursing him
which maleficent denies to a
disbelieving aurora
maleficent is prompted to flee without
aurora by the arrival of armed guards
philip urges his mother to try and
awaken john with a kiss
ingrith demurs and her weak attempt
fails because she does not love her
husband
especially for their differing views on
peace and war
as maleficent flees the castle
ingratha's right-hand woman
girda shoots maleficent with an iron
bullet
wounded maleficent falls into the ocean
only to be rescued by a mysterious
winged creature
she awakens in a cavern where fairies
like herself have been in hiding
among them is konal their peaceful
leader who saved maleficent
and borah a warlike fairy who favors
open conflict with humans
who killed the poachers near the moors
maleficent is among the last creatures
known as the dark fae
powerful fairies forced into hiding and
nearly driven extinct by human
oppression
she is also the last descendant from the
phoenix an ancient and powerful dark fae
ancestor
she needs to pass through certain stages
in order to harbor her full potential
when she brought up a human she cleared
the initial stages and conall insists on
forgiving aurora in order to gain her
final phoenix stage but maleficent
disagrees
because maleficent's magic is so
powerful konal and bora believe she is
instrumental in ending the conflict with
humans
either by peace or war meanwhile the
magical denizens of the moors are
invited to the royal wedding
but aurora grows disillusioned with
being an ulstead noble woman
later some humans enter the moors to
gather flowers to use as weapons against
the fae
sensing this maleficent and the dark fae
go to the moors to protect the flowers
but they are ambushed and conall is
killed prompting borah to declare war on
the humans
aurora discovers that ingrath cursed jon
using maleficent's old cursed spindle
as she hates all more fairy folk she
confronts ingrith
who reveals that she bitterly resents
the moore's prosperity during a time
when her kingdom suffered
and also blames them for her brother's
death she plots to eradicate all fairies
and woodland beings using the iron
weapons as well as a lethal crimson
powder developed by licksbettel a dewink
pixie
when the more folk arrive they are
trapped inside the castle chapel
at ingratha's command gerta unleashes
the deadly crimson powder by playing the
chapel's organ
the fairy flittle selflessly sacrifices
herself to save everyone as a last
resort by clogging the organ
rendering it unplayable while her
friend's not grass and thistle it cause
gerta to fall to her death
the dark fae launch an assault on
ulstead but the palace soldiers begin
massacring them until maleficent
channeling her phoenix power joins the
battle
she nearly kills ingrith but aurora
appeals to maleficent's humanity to
spare her
and declares that maleficent is her only
mother
with maleficent distracted ingrath fires
her crossbow
maleficent saves aurora but is struck by
the arrow
dissolving into ashes devastated
aurora grieves for maleficent but after
aurora's tears fall on the ashes
a revived maleficent attains her phoenix
stage
horrified and infuriated ingra throws
aurora
off the tower to kill her prompting
maleficent to rescue her again
philip forges peace between the fairies
and humans and the ulstead soldiers
stand down
maleficent reverts to her fairy form and
finally gives aurora and philip her
blessing
realizing they belong together
lickspittle decides to stop following
ingratha's orders and gives maleficent
the spindle used to curse john and
previously aurora maleficent destroys
the spindle and its curse
awakening jon from his slumber as she
flees
ingrith is stopped and captured by borah
and the other dark fae
as punishment for her crimes she is
transformed into a goat by maleficent
until she can accept the peace between
the two people
after aurora and philip marry maleficent
returns to the moors with the other dark
fae teaching the young fairies to fly
she promises to return for aurora and
philip's future child's christening
[Music]
[Applause]
you